Problem Identification
======================

For the past few years, I have been trying to learn French. I have used a range
of apps, studied the dictionary, learned the grammar, the lot. And still, I
cannot speak French. Why is it that when I went to France for a week, I felt my
confidence in the language skyrocket? 

Well, immersion in the language is probably why. Because I was surrounded by
French, I learned French better.

What if this were possible with maths? Or chemistry? 

Imagine travelling to a world where everyone only spoke in physics. Let’s call
it “physics land”. Being immersed in the culture and language of the place means
that you will learn physics much faster and more effectively than someone
learning in a boring classroom. You are immersed in physics! 

“Physics land” might sound too good to be true but with an approach called
project-based learning, teachers can get close to sending their students on a
trip there. 

In project-based learning, instead of being spoon-fed information, groups of
students are given a massive, real-world task, which they work on for an
extended period. Through working on that task, they understand how to use
different resources and tools related to the subject being taught. Project based
learning drives students to encounter the core ideas and principles of a
subject. 

About 4 years ago, I was part of a pilot where my school at the time tried out
project-based learning. My group’s task was to design a school from scratch.
This might seem excessive for a team of 12-year old’s, but it was quite possibly
the most useful learning I have ever done. Budgeting, planning, project
management, teamwork, presentations. All these real-world problems we had to
constantly work through in time for a deadline. We also had to work almost
entirely by ourselves—we had a teacher mentoring, but they only guided us and
didn’t hold our hand the whole way through. 

One of the things I loved about it is that I knew why I was learning things. I
didn’t just have to memorize the properties of different timbers for a GCSE
exam, I had to learn it so that I would know which one to use for the floors of
the classrooms. I didn’t have to learn how to use Excel because my IT teacher
told me to, I had to learn it so I could keep track of the imaginary school’s
budget. 

Also, in this project, we had little to no help from our teachers, we were
completely independent. We had to direct ourselves and plan our time well to
make sure we hit our deadline. Giving this independence made us want to go above
and beyond, to show our true potential, and gave us experience in real-world
time management. 

Another advantage is the teamwork aspect of the project. I was in a group with
people I didn’t really know, this gave me experience in collaborating with
people outside my comfort circle, a skill which is sought after in today’s
globalized environment.

Right now, the standard teaching technique emphasizes repetition and
reinforcement—basically, practice and tests. However, many philosophers and
educational pioneers are arguing that students best learn when they build
knowledge for themselves, they use their experiences with the world to create
new knowledge. This idea is called constructivism and it has been proven to be a
much more effective way of learning new things. Rather than just being told how
the world works, you find out for yourself. 

My school is implementing project-based learning for a select few years. Using a
new system which is bulit specifically for PBL would be beneficial to teachers
and students.

